Document setup for local development (#95)
onflow/kitty-items: LOCAL_DEV.md

# 😺 Kitty Items - Local Development 👩‍💻

## 👋 Introduction
We chose to connect Kitty Items to Flow's testnet because we wanted users to see how easy it was to take a non-trivial application to a live Flow network.

> Of course, some users may want to expreiment with their smart contracts before deploying them, or otherwise prototype their appliccation before publishing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, some users may want to experiment with their smart contracts before deploying them, or otherwise prototype their application before publishing it.
```

> In this section we'll detial how to set up your local environment for dapp development on Flow.

Author: ```suggestion
In this section we'll detail how to set up your local environment for dapp development on Flow.
```

## 🛠 Tools you'll use

> Local development on Flow is made possible using the following tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local development on Flow is made possible using the following tools:
```

- The `flow-cli`
  - We'll use the Flow command-line interface (`flow-cli`) to create accounts and bootstrap our contracts onto the Flow emulator.

>   - Read more: TODO LINK

Author: ```suggestion
  - `flow-cli` [Documentation](https://docs.onflow.org/flow-cli)
```

- The Flow Emulator
  - The Flow Emulator is a Flow blockchain that you can run locally. It has all the features and functionality of the live network because it uses the same software to process transactions and execute code as Flow's execution nodes. (Note: At the moment the emulator can't / does not reflect the state of the live network)

>   - Read more: TODO LINK

Author: ```suggestion
  - Flow emulator [documentation](https://docs.onflow.org/emulator)
```

- The `fcl-dev-wallet`
  - The dev wallet uses the same protocols required by `fcl` and Flow that are being used in production in consumer Flow wallets, such as Blocto.

>   - Read more: TODO LINK

Author: ```suggestion
  - `fcl-dev-wallet` [documentation](https://github.com/onflow/fcl-dev-wallet)
```

## ✨ Getting Started

### 1. Install the Flow CLI

Before you start, install the [Flow command-line interface (CLI)](https://docs.onflow.org/flow-cli).

_⚠️ This project requires `flow-cli v0.15.0` or above._

### 2. Clone the project

```sh
git clone https://github.com/onflow/kitty-items.git
```

### 2.b Initialize the `fcl-dev-wallet` submodule

If you've already cloned the project, or you're starting fresh, you'll neeed to include the `fcl-dev-wallet`.

```sh

> git submidule init && git submodule update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git submodule init && git submodule update
```

> git submidule init && git submodule update

Author: ```suggestion
git submodule init && git submodule update
```

> ```sh
> git clone https://github.com/onflow/kitty-items.git
> ```
> 
> ### 2.b Initialize the `fcl-dev-wallet` submodule
> 
> If you've already cloned the project, or you're starting fresh, you'll neeed to include the `fcl-dev-wallet`.
> 
> ```sh
> git submidule init && git submodule update
> ```
> 
> This command will clone the `fcl-dev-wallet` as a submodule in your repository. We're including the code as a submodule (and not a package) for the time being, because the wallet is still in early development.
> To ensure you have the latest version of the wallet, you can simply run `git submodule update` to fetch the latest code.

Reviewer 2: After this is part of the master branch the command bellow could replace the second step.
```suggestion
```sh
git clone https://github.com/onflow/kitty-items.git --recurse-submodules
```

Author: Yes, I wanted to be more "explicit" / obvious that the dev wallet is a submodule, so seperating the steps let's me mention the submodule ...etc.

Reviewer 2: But can't you still do that with this single command? The text explaining the submodule can stay but you don't need to execute two commands.

### 3. Create `.env` files

> Create `.env.local` in the `web` and `api` folders.

Reviewer 2: Could this step be omitted by just having a `.env.local` file already committed to GitHub, but then after it is included in the repo add `.env.local` to `.gitignore`?

Author: It's better that it's in the `.gitignore` first as a safeguard, in case folks forget to add it, and send private keys to their repos.

Reviewer 2: I'm not saying to remove it from .gitignore, what I'm saying is that it could be added to repo as `.env` and after it is included in repo the `.env` could be added to .gitignore this way you already have the file so no need copying but it won't be submitted by mistake to repo by anyone.

Author: Yeah this `.env` shenanigans sucks.

Author: I found this tool which is saving some headaches reading environment variables into the app. 
Allowed me to remove the env switching logic `require('dotenv').config()` nonsense.

Author: https://www.npmjs.com/package/env-cmd

Author: Is there a way we could avoid/simplify this without adding too much overhead? I haven't given it too ,much thought until now?

Author: @psiemens @srinjoyc @sideninja @MaxStalker 
pew pew pew can we fix this?

Author: https://12factor.net/config

```sh
cd ./web
cp .env.example .env.local
```

```sh

> cd ./api

Reviewer 2: Should it be?
```suggestion
cd ../api
```

cp .env.example .env.local
```

### 4. Configure your environment

Next we'll add important configuration values in 3 files:
  - `flow.json`
  - `web/.env.local`
  - `api/.env.local`

> The `.env.local` files should b e placed in their respective project directories, while `flow.json` can be found at the root of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.env.local` files should be placed in their respective project directories, while `flow.json` can be found at the root of the project.
```

MIGRATION_PATH=src/migrations

BLOCK_WINDOW=1
```

**Replace the content of `web/.env.local`:**

```sh
REACT_APP_CHAIN_ENV=emulator # <-- Set chain env to emulator
REACT_APP_FLOW_ACCESS_NODE=http://localhost:8080 # <-- Emulator "access node"
REACT_APP_WALLET_DISCOVERY=http://localhost:9999/fcl/authn # <-- fcl-dev-wallet endpoint

REACT_APP_CONTRACT_FUNGIBLE_TOKEN=
REACT_APP_CONTRACT_NON_FUNGIBLE_TOKEN=

REACT_APP_API_KIBBLE_MINT=http://localhost:3000/v1/kibbles/mint
REACT_APP_API_KITTY_ITEM_MINT=http://localhost:3000/v1/kitty-items/mint
REACT_APP_API_MARKET_ITEMS_LIST=http://localhost:3000/v1/market/latest

REACT_APP_CONTRACT_KIBBLE=
REACT_APP_CONTRACT_KITTY_ITEMS=
REACT_APP_CONTRACT_KITTY_ITEMS_MARKET=
```

Here you can see we're setting up to connect to the Flow Emulator and the `fcl-dev-wallet` by specifying their
respective host interfaces.

In the next step we'll add the missing values in our `.env.local` files for: 
- The Flow account that we'll deploy the Kitty-Items contracts to.
- The private key for that account.
- The addresses of the deployed contracts we'll use for this project

### 5. Start the Flow emulator

> To find the values we'll need to complete settin up our environment, we'll need to start the Flow emulator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the values we'll need to complete setting up our environment, we'll need to start the Flow emulator.
```

```sh
flow emulator --persist
```

> We're including the persist option, which will allow us to maintin the state of the emulatoed blockchain when we stop and restart the emulator. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're including the persist option, which will allow us to maintain the state of the emulated blockchain when we stop and restart the emulator. 
```

You should see the following output in your terminal:

```sh
INFO[0000] ⚙️   Using service account 0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7  serviceAddress=f8d6e0586b0a20c7 serviceHashAlgo=SHA3_256 servicePrivKey=f8e188e8af0b8b414be59c4a1a15cc666c898fb34d94156e9b51e18bfde754a5 servicePubKey=6e70492cb4ec2a6013e916114bc8bf6496f3335562f315e18b085c19da659bdfd88979a5904ae8bd9b4fd52a07fc759bad9551c04f289210784e7b08980516d2 serviceSigAlgo=ECDSA_P256
INFO[0000] 📜  Flow contracts                             FlowFees=0xe5a8b7f23e8b548f FlowServiceAccount=0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7 FlowStorageFees=0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7 FlowToken=0x0ae53cb6e3f42a79 FungibleToken=0xee82856bf20e2aa6
INFO[0000] 🌱  Starting gRPC server on port 3569          port=3569
INFO[0000] 🌱  Starting HTTP server on port 8080          port=8080
```

> This output contains the addresses for the contracts that are built into the emulator, as well as the address of the `FlowServiceAccount`, a pre-generated account you can use to easily get started deploying code to the emulator. We'll use the following values from the emulator's output in our `.env.local` files: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This output contains the addresses for the contracts that are built into the Emulator, as well as the address of the `FlowServiceAccount`, a pre-generated account you can use to easily get started deploying code to the emulator. We'll use the following values from the emulator's output in `.env.local` files: 
```

(☝️ **Note**: your local emulator's output may be different. Be sure to use values from _your own shell_ to ensure they match with your local environment).

#### Add the Flow Service Account address and private key

In `web/.env.local` add the value of `FlowServiceAccount` in your emulator's output as:
  - `REACT_APP_CONTRACT_KIBBLE`
  - `REACT_APP_CONTRACT_KITTY_ITEMS`
  - `REACT_APP_CONTRACT_KITTY_ITEMS_MARKET`

In `api/.env.local`: 
  - Add the value of `FlowServiceAccount` in your emulator's output as:
    - `MINTER_ADDRESS`

  - Add the value of `servicePrivKey` from your emulator's output as:
    - `MINTER_PRIVATE_KEY`

#### Add the Fungible Token contract address

> Next we'll update the address of the emeulator's `FungibleToken` contract. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we'll update the address of the emulator's `FungibleToken` contract. 
```

> Next we'll update the address of the emeulator's `FungibleToken` contract. 

Reviewer 2: The emulator should be started using CLI with command `flow emulator --persist` this way it will use `flow.json` as a configuration file and hence the service account address, private key, and the public key will be deterministic which will allow you to potentially remove all these value assignments from the emulator output. All the contracts that are already included in the emulator will also be always on the same address so you can also remove that.

Author: Yes, but I again, I wanted to be explicit so people understand where certain values are coming from (because they have to set them themselves)
 
It might be worth having more instructions about how to use the emulator with `flow.json` file. (I have a task to do that for this sprint actually) and document the `--persist` option there.

Reviewer 2: I really think we should be encouraging users to use flow cli to start tools like the emulator and later wallet. Wasn't that our plan to make it easier since it can be bundled. If not running the emulator using flow.json you are risking that the values you just set in those env variables won't be the same next time you restart the laptop.

Author: Hmm, ok I'll revise this portion. I'll definitely mention the link between the cli and `flow.json` but im inclined to leave the manual step of adding the address beaxuse I thnik it;s important to introduce `flow.json`. I think getting people to touch it will force them to think about it, ask questions ...etc. Instead of avoiding it or treating it like a black box/magic. (So, i think it;s a benefit to manually edit, even though you don't _have_ to)

Author: I'll admit that I was trying to increase the difficulty, _a little bit_. 
I think, the more difficult the obstacle you overcome, the more of an impact that experience has long-term. 
We're not going to scare anyone away, because they don't know any better. _We_ get to show them around. Folks like you will know they can write the command differently, but I bet you learned the long command first?

Author: @srinjoy

Reviewer 2: It's your call for the approach, just be careful so there is not misconfiguration of CLI and emulator as it will cause CLI to not sign correctly. Also, my effort has been to prefer using CLI `config` command to edit flow.json as it offers validation and it abstracts format changes. Manualy editing flow.json had many reports and issues on discord because developers make mistakes. It's just things to keep in mind if you plan to go this route.

Author: Ah nice! I wasn't aware you could change the config from the cli 😅
This is definitely the way to go.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/onflow/flow-cli/blob/master/docs/manage-configuration.md 
Speaking of which I believe docs have to be rebuilt for this to be visible.

In `api/.env.local` add the value of `FungibleToken` in your emulator's output to: 
  - `FUNGIBLE_TOKEN_ADDRESS`

In `web/.env.local` add the value of `FungibleToken` in your emulator's output to: 
  - `REACT_APP_CONTRACT_FUNGIBLE_TOKEN`

### 6. Deploy Kitty Items contracts

To get the address for the Non-Fungible token contract we'll first have to deploy it to the emulator.
Deployments are configured in `flow.json`. Examine the file, you'll see an entry for the contracts that will be deployed to the emulator's service account: 

```json:title=flow.json
...
"emulator": {
  "emulator-account": [
    "Kibble",
    "KittyItems",
    "KittyItemsMarket",
    "NonFungibleToken"
  ]
}
...
```
#### Add the Non-Fungible Token contract address to your environment

Ensure the emulator is still running and in another shell run the following command (in the folder containing the `flow.json` file):

```sh
flow project deploy --network=emulator
```

> You should see the following output with the addresses of the contracts that were deployed to the emaulator's service account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see the following output with the addresses of the contracts that were deployed to the emulator's service account:
```

```sh
Deploying 4 contracts for accounts: emulator-account

Kibble -> 0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7
NonFungibleToken -> 0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7
KittyItems -> 0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7
KittyItemsMarket -> 0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7

✨ All contracts deployed successfully
```
In `api/.env.local` add the value of `NonFungibleToken` in your emulator's output to: 
  - `NON_FUNGIBLE_TOKEN_ADDRESS`

In `web/.env.local` add the value of `NonFungibleToken` in your emulator's output to: 
  - `REACT_APP_CONTRACT_NON_FUNGIBLE_TOKEN`

### 7. Finish up!

> Now that you've added the environment variables you'll need to run the applicatino locally there are only a few more steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've added the environment variables you'll need to run the application locally. It's  just a few more steps.
```

#### Install and start `fcl-dev-wallet`

> The emulator hould still be running in your shell. Follow the <a href="https://github.com/onflow/fcl-dev-wallet" target="_blank">instructions here</a> for installing `fcl-dev-wallet`. 

Author: ```suggestion
The emulator should still be running in your shell. Follow the <a href="https://github.com/onflow/fcl-dev-wallet" target="_blank">instructions here</a> for installing `fcl-dev-wallet`. 
```
